# Leafy automata

The CONCUR submission is [/Users/igw/Works/Andrzej/leafy_Concur.pdf]

The goal is to get some decidable fragments of 
**Finitary Idealized Concurrent Algol (FICA)**
[[finitary-idealized-concurrent-algol]]
We can hope to solve safety problem for some reduced cases but there is not much
hope for equivalence, as we cannot represent strategies uniquely.


**Concurrent Algol** has while, variables, and concurrency in a form of parallel
composition and semaphores. Moreover the subprocesses need to finish before the
process starting them can resume. 

[[game-semantics]] of FICA is captured by an **Leafy automaton**: automaton with
nested data in the form of a tree. 
This tree discipline takes care of most of
the dependencies between moves in game semantics.  
[[leafy-automata-reflections]]

Log:
* A resume of a situation at the CONCUR'20 submission [[leafy-automata-july-2020]].
* Some thoughts about improvements are [[leafy-automta-september-2020]]
* Meeting [[leafy-automata-5-oct-2020]]

Some things to improve after reports from FOSSACS:
* are leafy automata of some independent interest?
* It would be good to have a fragment with iteration.
* The correspondence with plays is not perfect because of saturation. 
* What is the complexity of the equivalence problem for LLA?
* Relation to truly concurrent games [Castellan, S, Clairambault, P.: Causality
  vs. interleavings in concurrent game semantics. In CONCUR 2016.]

#Andrzej

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[finitary-idealized-concurrent-algol]: finitary-idealized-concurrent-algol "Finitary Idealized Concurrent Algol"
[game-semantics]: game-semantics "Game semantics"
[leafy-automata-reflections]: leafy-automata-reflections "Leafy automata: reflections"
[leafy-automata-july-2020]: leafy-automata-july-2020 "Leafy automata July 2020"
[leafy-automta-september-2020]: leafy-automta-september-2020 "Leafy automta September 2020"
[leafy-automata-5-oct-2020]: leafy-automata-5-oct-2020 "Leafy Automata 5 Oct 2020"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"